- [Narrator] Hi and welcome
back to the programme.
It's really great to have
you, I'm really excited
to go through this quick
Python refresher with you.
In this video and in the next,
we're going to look at
variables and methods.
So let's start with the most basic
Python building block, the variable.
In order to begin the
first thing I'm going to do
is create a new file here in Atom
and then I'm going to
save it inside the folder
and I'm going to save it
as variables_methods.py.
Now the .py is important
because it's going to mean
that Atom will know this is a Python file
and then it can also make suggestions
and give us some syntax,
colours, and things like that.
Now that we've got our file, let's begin.
The most basic building block
of Python is the variable
and a variable is just a box essentially,
a box that we can stick
a name on and then we can
refer back to it from
anywhere else in the file.
For example, we can
create a box and call it a
and then make it equal to, say, five.
What we're doing here
is just creating a box
with the name a and putting
the value five into it.
We can do other boxes
like b and we can even
give it longer names
like my_variable is 56.
Notice that the variable
names can contain letters
such as a, b, c, they
can contain underscores
and they can also contain numbers,
like decimal numbers, for
example my_10_variable.
Now I don't really like using numbers
in variable names because
they're not very descriptive,
it's just an amount essentially
so I don't tend to use
numbers in variable names,
but nevertheless you can do that.
You cannot, however, put
the number at the start.
You cannot have a number at the
start of your variable name.
That's not allowed in
Python but you can have
it at the end, you can have
it in the middle and so on.
And also you cannot do
things like using ampersands
in variable names, or
indeed any other symbol.
Those things are not allowed in Python.
But apart from that you
can have any variable name
you want, it can be as long as you want
or as short as you want obviously,
and it has to be at
least one character long.
Now these four variables here are numbers
but we can also use things like strings.
So I'm going to create another variable
called string_variable and I'm going
to make it equal to hello in this case.
Notice that the word hello
is just a set of
characters, it's just a set
of letters, in this
case h, e, l, l, and o.
Python does not know that this is a word.
It only knows that this is five characters
and it knows that the first
character is an h and so on.
So it's important to remember that Python
is not intelligent, it does not know
whether things are words,
phrases, and so on.
As well as strings with double quotes
we can also do single quote strings
like so.
So these two are obviously different
because one is hello and the other one
is strings can have single quotes
but there is no difference between
using double quotes and
using single quotes.
So you can use them indistinctively
although I'd suggest that you stick
to one in particular that you like more.
If you prefer single quotes then use
single quotes throughout
your entire programme.
If you prefer double quotes use
double quotes throughout
your entire programme.
Finally as an introduction
to the next video
we can also do things like
print these things out.
So, we can print(my_variable)
and what this'll do is it will just output
the value of my_variable to the console.
So if we go to a console and navigate
to the folder where you've got your code,
your file, and then run it using
the command we already
know, python, and then
variables_methods.py,
that's the name of my file,
then we'll see that 56 comes out
because that's the value of my_variable.
Notice that declaring variables
and giving them a value does not cause
anything to be printed out to the console.
Only when we actually
print do things come out.
Of course we can also
print our string variables
and then they get printed out without
the quotation marks, just
the content gets printed out.
Now the print method
is, as I said, a method
and a method is just an
action, it does something.
Whereas defining a variable
creates a piece of data,
it creates this box and
it gives it this value,
the print command is a
method and it does something.
So what it does in this case is it accepts
a variable, it accepts a
value, and then it prints
it out to the console, it puts it out
in the console for the user to see.
But methods are not limited to putting
things out in a console, they can do many
other things like adding
things to a database,
displaying a website, and
many many many more things.
As an aside you can also print
values directly, like hello world,
or indeed print(123).
So what the print method really
is looking at is not at whether
this is a variable or not but at
the value that that variable has.
So in this case when we print(my_variable)
really what we're doing is print(hello).
And when we print(string_variable),
sorry when we print(my_variable)
really what we're doing is print(56)
and when we print(string_variable)
what we're doing is we're printing hello.
So then we can also
print a string directly,
it doesn't have to be in a variable,
and we can also print a number directly,
it doesn't have to be in a variable.
Okay, so that's it for variables.
In the next video, let's look at methods.
I'll see you there.